 THE ASSASSINATION OF CONRAD OF MONTFERRAT: ANOTHER SUSPECT?

  On 28 April 1192 Conrad, marquis of Montferrat and lord of Tyre, husband of the last royal princess of Jerusalem and
  newly-elected king of that embattled state, was assassinated. The persons immediately responsible for that deed were
  captured and summarily executed, but there was and remains some doubt about who was to blame ultimately for the crime.
  A new analysis of the evidence may shed some light on that unidentified culprit.

   The remaining evidence, of course, is only literary, and we cannot cross examine the witnesses. Indeed, the witnesses
   available to us bear only hearsay. This accounts for some of the discrepancies in the stories which they have told;
   the variations are many. Our informants are generally agreed on this much in their accounts of the murder:
   At the dinner hour Conrad had been at the dwelling of the bishop of Beauvais; he left and shortly thereafter
   was attacked by two young men with daggers. They knocked him from his horse and fatally wounded him, then attempted
   to flee. One was immediately killed, the other found temporary refuge in a nearby church. He was soon seized,
   however, questioned to discover why he had stabbed the marquis, and then sentenced to death by being dragged through
   the streets. Other more telling details are not so common to all the stories. For example, there is little agreement
   among our sources as to who the assassins were or how they got their opportunity for the murder. There is general
   agreement that the assailants had been dispatched by Sinan, head of the Syrian Ismaili sect ? known commonly as
   the Assassins ? but one of the generally more reliable of our sources, Beh? Ed-Din, said simply that the two were
   servants of the Marquis and that they admitted being hired by Richard, King of England. Some of the other accounts
   suggested also that they were servants of Conrad, but that they had taken the post expressly to enable them some time
   to assassinate him. Roger of Hoveden reported that the two had served Conrad for a long time, while Ibn-Alathyr,
   describing the two as in the disguise of monks, reported that only one was in Conrad's entourage, though for six months;
   Abu Chamah, Ernoul, and L'Estoire de Eracles reported essentially the same story but without specifying the length
   of time that the assassin re ained in Conrad's service. From these accounts we may surmise at least that the need
   for an assassination was foreseen and the plans laid well in advance, and that Sinan was immediately responsible
   for those plans. For if we assume that the accuracy of the Beh Ed-Din version that the assassins were simply
   servants of Conrad and that, when questioned, they admitted being hired by Richard then it becomes nearly
   impossible to explain the near unanimity with which the other accounts, both Western and Eastern,
   reported that the Ismaili were the agents of the murder.

   It is true that many of these accounts pointed to Richard as being ultimately responsible, but only because he hired
   the job done by the Ismaili. Now, it is clear that the assassins (or one of them) did get caught and did admit to
   something, too many of the accounts agree on this much for it to be denied, and it is likely that this some thing was
   that they were members of the Ismaili. It is only by accepting such a hypothesis that we can account for the certainty
   with which our witnesses point to that sect as guilty. Had they been caught and admitted to nothing, or had they merely
   been killed on the spot, there would have been nothing to connect them with the Ismaili. The residents of Tyre had
   apparently accepted them as Christian servants (perhaps monks) attached to Conrad. It is unlikely that they could have
   been positively identified as anything else save by their own admission.

   *If you're interested in this fascinating tale, then let me know and I'll send the whole pdf to you.*
