On July 2, 1948, President Harry S. Truman signed the Japanese-American Evacuation Claims Act into law after Congress
passed the bill unanimously.  The bill addressed limited monetary reparations for the property loss of 120,000 people of
Japanese ancestry who had been incarcerated by the U.S government during World War II. Unfortunately, the bill did not
include compensation for lost profits, an official apology by the U.S. government for the injustice done to the Japanese
Americans, and compensation for the loss of civil rights and hardship endured in the camps. The restrictions made even
getting full reimbursement of lost property impossible. The Japanese Americans made 26,586 claims worth $148 million,
but the government only paid out $37 million.  The Western Defense Command (WDC), empowered by Executive Order 9066, issued
a mandatory evacuation in March of 1942 which forced West Coast Japanese Americans to report to assembly centers in as little
as seven days.  As a result, the Japanese Americans hastily parted with their homes, furnishings, inventories, automobiles,
businesses, and other properties for fractions of the market price. The U.S government did not give the Japanese Americans
enough time to put their affairs in order before relocating  them to an assembly center and then to one of ten incarceration
camps. The magnitude of the economic loss caused so much hardship, that the U.S government eventually stepped in to provide
a token compensation payment via the bill. The token payments allowed the U.S government to compensate the Japanese
Americans without admitting guilt and apologizing for the incarceration and the injustice done to them. The government
believed that the bill provided all the compensation the Japanese Americans needed and considered the case closed.
The bill absolved the government of the responsibility to provide true redress, that is setting right to all the wrongs
done to the Japanese Americans during the incarceration period. The government did not make an official apology, did not
acknowledge the wrongness of incarceration, and failed to provide adequate compensation for the hardships endured. 